Biggest reason why Founder-CEO's fail is due to confidence. 																									
																									
You can't hesitate. Make the decision. Run at the pain and darkness.																									
																									
What You Do Is Who You Are - Ben Horowitz - cultural checklist - cultural design, culture orientation, shocking rules, incorporate outside leadership, object lessons, make ethics explicit, give cultural tenets deep meaning, walk the talk, make decisions that demonstrate priorities																									
																									
"Every company goes through a few WFIO's (whiff-ee-yo), ""We're Fucked, It's Over"" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""By far the most difficult skill I learned as CEO was the ability to manage my own psychology."" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""Trust is the foundation of communication"" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""One of the best ways to change culture is through constant contact."" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
																									
"""Nothing in life is fair. It never will be.  Don't think otherwise or it will consume you.  When shit happens, don't think you were owed anything despite the scenario.  Move on to what is the best thing to do next?"" Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""One of the best positions to be in: young, talented, and the underdog."																									
"That's like a cocktail for making something great. You're hungry to prove yourself. You're young enough to not care about how it's previously been done. And, usually, you have fewer responsibilities to pull you away from the work."""																									
																									
“A person’s thoughts are like water in a deep well, but someone with insight can draw them out.” Proverbs 20:5 (GNT)																									
"Ask more open-ended questions.  ""Tell Me More.."""																									
																									
"""Every time you make the hard, correct decision you become a bit more courageous."" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""Keep death in mind at all times"" - Bushido - The Way of the Warrior"																									
																									
"""The loser has more in common with the winner than with the person sitting on the sidelines."																									
The winner and the loser each had the courage to try. Both risked embarrassment. Both were willing to face uncertainty. Both were stubborn enough to continue.																									
"Success is endurance in disguise. It belongs to the person who can absorb the losses without absorbing the identity of ""loser."" It's the courage to start — and to stick with it — that is the real separator. Results tend to find the person who stays in the game."																									
"The sidelines are safe, but sterile. Nothing grows there."""																									
																									
Culture - virtues, it's a way of being - It's not a set of ideas, it's a set of behaviors.  It's a set of actions.  You're fired if you talk shit about an entrepreneur.  Every 10 min you miss of an entrepreneurs' meeting time, you're fined $10.																									
																									
Communication is biggest issue as you get bigger.																									
																									
To be different, you must think different.. the best CEOs out there put themselves in others shoes, then from that they know how to best influence them on how to do what you want them to do.																									
																									
If big problems, you just start meeting every day/week until it gets fixed.  Throw time at it until it gets fixed.  Most of the time its a dumb problem and based on communication.  																									
																									
"""We suffer much more often in imagination than in reality"" - Seneca"																									
																									
Slow is smooth.  Smooth is fast.           No hurry, no pause.																									
																									
"""When things go wrong in your company, Nobody cares."" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""Hire for Strength rather than lack of weakness"" - Colin Powell"																									
																									
"""Run the departments and understand the process/needs - then clearly define the skills for the person to hire in that seat."" Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
"""We take care of the people, the products, and the profits -- in that order"" - Ben Horowitz"																									
																									
What if I let them make decisions up to $100? $500? $1,000?    - People’s IQs seem to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them.																									
																									
What if I just do the opposite for 48 hours? What if I could only subtact to solve problems?  What should I put on my not-to-do list? What might I put in place to allow me to go off the grid for 4 to 8 weeks, with no phone or email?																									
																									
Why It's Imperative to Tell It Like It Is:																									
1) Trust																									
2) The more brains working on the hard problems, the better.																									
3) Build a culture that rewards - not punishes - people for getting problems into the open where they can be solved.																									
																									
First principle of the Bushido - the way of the warrior: keep death in mind at all times.																									
																									
"""To simplify before you understand the details is ignorance.  To simplify after you understand the details is genius."" - James Clear"																									
																									
"""Success is often found by practicing the fundamentals everyone knows they should be doing, but find too boring or basic to practice routinely."" - James Clear"																									
																									
Success is about incremental wins.  Internalize the reward.   Chain and Games.																									
																									
Measure the gain, not the gap.																									
																									
Doing imperfectly is better than not doing at all.																									
																									
"""What's next - you can't just try to keep up or you'll be left in the dust."""																									
																									
"""We don't need to think more, we need to think differently"" - Albert Eistein"																									
																									
"""Your willpower will never beat your environment."""																									
																									
"""Rocks, pebbles, sand, and water in jar"" - Jar of Life"																									
																									
"""Until you can be thankful for the things you have, you will not receive the things you want."""																									
																									
"""Don't overthink the outcome; just do the next right thing."""																									
																									
"""I can do anything I want.  I just can't do everything I want."""																									
																									
"""There comes a point in every experience when I'm too far in to quit but almost certain I can't finish.  If I keep moving forward, I'll eventually get to the other side."""																									
																									
"""The greatest developments in history are the result of someone wanting something that did not yet exist, and helping others to want more than they thought wantable."" Luke Bargis"																									
																									
2 Timothy 1:7, “For God has not given us a spirit of fear and timidity, but of power, love, and self-discipline” (NLT).																									
																									
"Self-reflection Exercise: ""I want you to do this: reflect on what has bothered you over the next 3 days and write the main points down. Then write down what ""great"" looks like to move past this and grow from it as an organization "																									
																									
No Ego Takeaways:																									
1) Eliminate Workplace Drama by Refusing to Participate In it																									
What is the best thing you could do from here to help us move forward?																									
What can you do next?																									
What part of this is within your control?																									
																									
2) Replace Engagement Efforts with Accountability 																									
What result are you committing to?																									
Are you committed to this?																									
																									
3) Teach People to See Reality, Not Their Stories																									
"Let's look at problem solving here... ""What do we know for sure?"""																									
																									
"4) ""Stop rescuring people from Discomfort"""																									
What have you tried so far?																									
																									
5) Expect Buy-In - Don't Negotiate It																									
Here's what's happening.  How will you move forward?																									
																									
																									
"""Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not: nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not: the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. The Slogan ""Press On"" has solved and always will solve problems of the human race."" -Calvin Coolidge"																									
																									
																									
"BBB - Be brief, Be brilliant, Be done."" - Darren Hardy"																									
The Gatorade effect																									
“When there is a void in communication, negativity will fill it.” - Darren Hardy																									
																									
"""Fewer deeper relationships - find really good WHO's - people who like to GSD"""																									
																									
"""The cowards never started and the weak died along the way.  That leaves us."" - Phil Knight"																									
																									
"""Life is growth.  You grow or you die."" - Phil Knight"																									
																									
"""Don't tell people how to do things, tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results."" - Phil Knight"																									
																									
DON'T BE SLOW - Speed killers: 1)Perfectionism 2) Overthinking 3) Permission Seeking																									
																									
Mindset of Speed - 1) Set ridiculous deadlines 2) Ready, Fire, Aim 3)																									
Your fifth version will be better than your first perfect version that you never release																									
In today's world, the fast devour the slow.																									
																									
Done is better than perfect																									
																									
“If you wait for perfect conditions, you will never get anything done” (Ecclesiastes 11:4).																									
																									
"""A man is what he thinks about all day long."""																									
																									
"""Your adversities are your advantage.."""																									
																									
“Working hard for something we don’t care about is called stress; working hard for something we love is called passion.” - Simon Sinek																									
																									
"""A drop of honey catches more flies than a gallon of gall"" - Abraham Lincoln"																									
																									
"""Leadership is more than making decisions, it's about living by those decisions and guiding others to do the same."""																									
																									
Why am I doing this? If it really is a necessity, ask yourself: What's behind my reluctance? Fear? Spite? Fatique? Don't be the person who says yes by their mouth and no by their actions.																									
																									
"""Sometimes people chase success, when what they want to achieve is significance"""																									
																									
Always measure success against your own goals. 																									
																									
"""Show your passion, while sharing your humility.  Tell a story that others can follow"" - me"																									
																									
“Do not let anyone look down on you because you are young, but be an example for the believers in your speech, your conduct, your love, faith, and purity. . . . Do not neglect the spiritual gift that is in you. . . . Practice these things and devote yourself to them, in order that your progress may be seen by all” (1 Timothy 4:12, 14-15 GNT).																									
																									
"""In your actions, don't procrastinate.  In your conversations, don't confuse.  In your thoughts, don't wonder.  In your soul, don't be passive or aggressive.  In your life, don't be all about business."" - Macrus Aurelius, Meditations, 8.51"																									
																									
"""Busyness and focusing on results vs activity"" — results vs activity — busyness is often mistaken for productivity — busyness is a form of procrastination "																									
																									
"""Choose to be interested, instead of interesting."""																									
																									
Matthew 5:5 says, “Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth” (NIV).					Franks wisdom:																				
					- no one specific books just experience and lots of reading																				
* PCS - identify the problem first before thinking of a solution* .... Problem, consequence, solution * Charisma/be genuine * Problem, consequence, solution *					- always know your audience																				
					- keep things simple																				
"""Remember that the real issue is not the problem itself but how you react to it."" - Steven Covey - 7 Habits of Highly Successful People"					- tell a story people can follow																				
																									
"""Self-expression is the dominant necessity of human nature."" - Dale Carnegie - How to Win Friends & Influence People"																									
					1) assume the best in people																				
"""Knowledge is not power, Implementation and discipline of said knowledge is where real power comes from."" - Jason Tanoory"					2) the only errors simply are errors in communication 																				
																									
"""Learn to be the last to speak"" - 1) let them be heard 2) gain their opinions and understand them 3) have the opportunity to be the last to share your thoughts"																									
																									
Be curious in conversation.  Stop, pause, and breathe before your response in tense conversation. Listen to understand before responding.																									
																									
"""Where there is no vision, the people perish."" - Proverbs 19:18"					Discipline																				
																									
"""Let the other person do a great deal of the talking."" - HTWFIP"																									
					fortitude																				
"""The desire to be important is the deepest urge in human nature."" - John Dewey"					courage																				
					cleadheadedness																				
"""The deepest principle in human nature is the craving to feel appreciated."" - William James"					selflessness																				
					sacrifice																				
"""If you want to change your behavior or emotions, start with your thoughts and attitude."" Rick Warren"																									
																									
"""The role of a leader is not to come up with a bunch of great ideas. The role of a leader is to create an environment in which great ideas can happen."" - Simon Sinek"																									
																									
"""We lead people, we manage things."""																									
																									
"""To achieve something you have never achieved before you must become someone you have never been."" - Les Brown"																									
																									
Fundamental Techniques in Handling People																									
"""Do not criticize, condemn, or complain."" - Rule #1 - How To Win Friends and Influence People"																									
																									
"""Give honest and sincere appreciation."" Rule #2 - How To Win Friends and Influence People"																									
																									
"""Arouse in the other person an eager want."" - Rule 3 - How to Win Friends & Influence People"																									
																									
Six Ways to Get People To Like You																									
"""Become genuinely interested in other people."" - Principle 1"																									
                                                                  																									
"""Success is not something you pursue. What you pursue eludes you. Success is something you attract by the person you become. If you want to have more, you must become more."" -Jim Rohan"																									
																									
"""The key is to raise your set point, or self-worth, self-esteem, mindset, attitude, philosophy and character. When those get raised, everything in your life will be raised with them."" - Darren Hardy"																									
																									
“Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.” - Thomas Jefferson																									
																									
"""Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more.  If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.""  - Oprah Winfrey"																									
																									
"""You see, when the reason is big enough, you will be willing to perform almost any how."" - Darren Hardy"																									
																									
"""Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it."" - George Santayana"																									
																									
"""When you prioritize the important over the urgent, you don't get more done - you get the right things done.  And that's the difference between a busy life and a meaningful life."" - Greg McKeown"																									
																									
As a business coach named Tim Conley once told me: It’s easier to shift the direction of a car going 100 mph than it is to shift a car going 0 mph.																									
																									
"""To win, you must visualize what winning means and then implement it. - Steven Covey - 7 Habits of Highly Successful People"																									
																									
"""We hardly listen to understand; we listen to reply."" - Steven Covey - 7 Habits of Highly Successful People"																									
																									
Create an atmosphere of Trust.  With a healthy work environment, excellent results will come.																									
																									
"""Delegation is lengthening or shortening of the rope while the person learns.  It's not blindly handing off something just to get it done.  Only a fool would do that."" - Dave Ramsey"																									
																									
"""Delegation is not a blind handoff"" - Dave Ramsey"																									
																									
"""Some of the smartest people in the world know how to use debt in a smart way"""																									
																									
"""Learn from your mistakes and make the changes necessary"""																									
																									
Top Habits of Successful Entrepreneurs:																									
Be willing to get out of your comfort zone																									
Have a long-term vision for the business youre trying to build																									
Focus on taking the correct actions day in and day out																									
Build the skills you need to make your dreams a reality																									
Be disciplined enough to do what’s necessary even when you don’t feel like it																									
																									
What do I have to lose?																									
																									
But our goal as believers is to develop the kind of faith that persists above feelings. -  Rick Warren																									
																									
Unfortunately, many people spend hours, days, and even weeks learning how to do stuff they have no intention of implementing.																									
But because learning about business feels similar to doing business—and is one step removed from actually doing the work—it gives people a sense of accomplishment.																									
Unfortunately, you can’t deposit knowledge credits at the bank. And last time I checked, you can’t pay your rent with tidbits of information.																									
																									
Accountability at work is the repeated pattern of verifying that expectations are turning into results.																									
Accountability isn’t micromanagement. It’s about setting clear expectations and providing support—not controlling every detail.																									
Clear expectations are the foundation. Without them, accountability feels frustrating and confusing for everyone.																									
Micromanaging kills trust and slows your team down. If you’re constantly checking in, redoing work, or refusing to delegate, it’s time to step back.																									
Set expectations that stick. Define what winning looks like, empower your team, and ask for commitment.																									
Regular feedback matters. One-on-one meetings and team check-ins help reinforce accountability and prevent misalignment.																									
Accountability should be measurable. Self-assess, get team feedback, and check for signs that your systems are working.																									
																									
Leadership is:																									
1) Clearly defining what success looks like in each position of your organization																									
2) Ability to objectively measure the performance of each position																									
3) Holding them accountable to what your expectations are for each position																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									
																									